Okay, so let's look at 4
psychological principles that you can
actually use that's gonna help
you engage with your audience and
encourage them to take action.
The first one I wanna look at is
the need to address objections and
reduce risk in people's minds.
Because that is absolutely fundamental
to your success, if you wanna encourage
people to act on your website whether
that's sign up for your newsletter or
download your site or your product,
I was gonna say a SaaS product.
You don't download one of those or
buy something on an E commerce site,
addressing people's fears and
concerns is fundamental to success and
that's all because of this guy,
again, the primal brain, right?
Because the primal brain is
constantly looking for danger, right?
Unfortunately, it's not really got much
work to do these days, well, I don't know
what I'm saying unfortunately,
it's quite opposite, it's fortunately that
we're not about to be leapt on by a saber
toothed tiger at any particular moment.
But the result of that, is that it's
kind of flailing around looking for
dangers that aren't really there.
And so,
it starts to grab hold of anything,
anything that could
potentially be seen as a risk.
So let's take a really classic example,
like signing up for newsletter.
So I've mocked up a particularly
manipulative newsletter sign up here that
says yes, I'd like a good deal.
And then the other option is
no I prefer to waste money.
But obviously that is exactly
what you shouldn't be doing,
but what can be illustrated here?
Is that, that actually the primal
brain when it's faced with
something like this goes into
overdrive of looking for concerns and
dangers and worries, so
let me just give you a few examples,
what if they sell my email
address to a third party?
Right, that's a concern that goes through
our head not necessarily consciously, but
it's there nagging away in the back of our
brains, or what if the contents rubbish?
Right, and it's not relevant to me,
or what if they make it hard for
me to unsubscribe?
Another common one is what
they send me too many emails,
it's really annoying isn't it?
When you sign up to a newsletter and
they just bombard you with emails, and
what if they pressure me
into buying something?
All of these are negatives objections
problems that put us off of signing up
to newsletters, and then of course there's
Wi-Fi get hacked or Wi-Fi get hacked.
So, dealing with these risks and
objections that are whirling around
in people's heads consciously or
subconsciously, is so important when it
comes to giving people the confidence
to sign up to your newsletter or
whatever else you're asking people to do.
The problem here is that we're often
afraid to address these objections for
fear of bringing them up.
So really classic example of this.
If you've ever done any design work,
right?
And you've done a design mock up for
a client and
you've got to present it to the client,
and
you know that there's something in
the design the client doesn't want, right?
Won't like, maybe that they're gonna
go the logos not big enough or
they're not gonna like the color or
whatever.
But what we often do is we go into those
meetings and we go, don't mention it,
don't mention it, don't mention it, you
kind of hope that they don't bring it up.
And of course, inevitably they do.
And that's kind of what
we do on our websites.
I hope they don't have this problem with
it, or, and so we don't address them.
But just as it's much better with
a client to actually come out and
talk about the problem in advance
the same is true on websites.
So let's take a really classic example
right which is McDonald's, okay?
We have all heard things about McDonald's,
haven't we, right?
And about their food.
We've all heard things
like chicken nuggets.
They may contain chicken, but we're not
gonna say which parts of the chicken.
Okay, there is this implication that
chicken nuggets have got dodgy bits of
chicken in or that french fries don't
actually contain any potato but
they're all these kind of
myths that are flying around.
Now, McDonald's are clever enough to know
that they need to address those objections
and address those concerns, they don't
come out and say it that blatantly but
what they do say on their website is,
it's always 100% chicken breast meat.
And in fact, if you click through that and
find out more that the expanded title
there is it's always 100% chicken
breast meat even on chicken nuggets,
it actually says even our chicken nuggets.
So McDonald's have had the confidence
to address those objections head on and
that's really what we need to be doing
when it comes to our calls to action,
when it comes to our value propositions.
So going back to the newsletter example,
let me show you my own newsletter on one
version of my newsletter cuz
I do a lot of AB testing.
Everything about my call to action
to encourage people to sign
up to my newsletter on my website is
designed to deal with objections.
So for example I say how often they'll
be emailed every 2 weeks, right?
You will receive support improving your
site by creating a better user experience
a more effective digital strategy.
So I actually explain what
the content is gonna be as well and
how it's gonna benefit people.
But then I go on and say,
you can unsubscribe in one click, and
we will never share your
email address with anybody.
So everything there is about dealing with
those objections and concerns people
have at the moment that they're
making the decision to take action.
And so that is this idea of addressing
these objections and concerns is so
important to your success and we'll get
into that all a little bit more later.
The other thing that you can do when
it comes to addressing these objections
because sometimes the objection isn't
something that you can overcome, right?
Sometimes there are certain
objections kinda baked
into the experience that there's
no way of dealing with, so
your alternative approach is to
make it a risk worth taking, right?
So people will object to spending the
money for example and obviously you're not
gonna give the product away for free,
so they're gonna have to suck that up.
But what you can do is make it so
obvious that it's a great,
it's an objection worth dealing with.
So you can focus on the benefits
before features and
this is a common mistake I
see on a lot of websites.
Is that jumping straight in and
saying what the thing does, right?
What the functionality is,
what the details of the offering is.
And they don't take the time to say
how this is gonna change your life,
how is gonna make things better for
you as a person?
So we see this all the time on
something like car advertising, right?
Car advertising isn't kind of listing
all of the features of the car,
it's not talking you know about its
technical spec or anything like that,
what they're doing is they're
talking about the benefits.
So you'll see everybody who ever sees
to drive a car in an ad is either
incredibly beautiful and
gotten an attractive partner with them.
You know that.
So basically the implication is
it's gonna make your life better.
That's the benefit,
you're gonna be more sexy or whatever.
Or it's a family going off kayaking or
something like that, it's all about
self improvement and self filming, so talk
about the benefits of your product if you
want to help people overcome their natural
hesitancy and fear of taking action.
And then we can also do what's called
introducing a new reference point so
you can reframe somebody's thinking
in terms of their objections,
so I can give you a real
world example of this one.
So you've probably heard of Mailchimp,
right?
Mailchimp enable you to send
out email marketing to people.
Now, Mailchimp is really good.
So great tool, but I kind of come to
the point where I wanted a different too,
all right?
For reasons I bore you with,
so I started looking around at
what was in the marketplace.
And I came across a tool called
ConvertKit that basically,
yeah, did the same
fundamentally the same thing,
and the first thing I saw was,
it was more expensive, the Mailchimp.
So I was immediately gonna
dismiss it at that point, but
right next to the price,
it had a link that said, explicitly,
ConvertKit compared to Mailchimp cuz
Mailchimp is the leader in the field.
So just I happen to click on that link,
it was enough to grab my attention,
it pulled me through to a different page,
and that page basically did a side by side
comparison of features, the Mailchimp had
compared to features that ConvertKit hat.
And as sheep, I read down that list
of features and I'm just like, wow,
ConvertKit is really good.
I ended up moving across to it,
even though it costs me more some,
so notice what happened now.
I had an objection, discuss more, but
they reframed my thinking away
from worrying about price and
on to thinking about features and
its capability and what it can do.
So it changed my reference point.
So that's another thing
that you can explore.
And again, we'll touch on that more later.
And then the final final thing you
can do is appeal to the Selfish Gene.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, there are a lot of products that
people buy that you're not really buying
for yourself, but you're buying for
somebody else, whether it be a gift, or
obviously in the B to B sector,
often the people buying something
aren't gonna be the end users.
Charity giving is another example
where you're giving money and
you're not actually personally
getting the benefit back from it.
It's going to another person.
Now in those kinds of scenarios,
often our tendency as we design and
create websites around those
kinds of things is refocus on
delivering to talking about
the benefit to the end user.
But actually, we need to be talking
about the benefit to the buyer as well,
to appeal to them selfishly.
So for example, with charity,
giving your heart,
you wanna talk about how it makes
the giver feel good about how it,
there might be tax breaks to it or
whatever else.
Don't just focus on the end user but also
focus on the other person because that
helps and overcome their own fears and
their own concerns and
their own objections and
makes it a risk worth taking.
Another thing that you can do with these
objections and these risks that people
are struggling with on the website is give
people a sense of control of those risks.
When we feel in control of something,
it feels less dangerous and
less concerning to us, and there
are a couple of ways that we can do this.
The first is to not leave people
wondering what's going on.
Right, one of the biggest
problems is a kind of a natural
hesitancy on our part because
we feel out of our depth,
if we don't know what's going on,
we feel out of control, we worry.
We become anxious,
our primal brain kicks into high gear, but
when we're given a sense of control by
being informed about where things are,
everything changes so that I can
give you a real example of this,
so, I was flying from
London Heathrow to Austin, Texas.
And you have to change or
did have to change at Dallas.
So we flew into Dallas and as we flew
into Dallas, it started snowing in Texas.
It was just ridiculous.
Nobody knew how to deal with this,
the whole airport closed down instantly,
right?
They just couldn't cope with the idea
of snow in Texas, everybody panicked.
So all the flights were grounded,
and I wandered over to
the information desk,
the British Airways information desk.
Along with pretty much everybody else and
to try and find out what was happening,
and there were two information desks side
by side, there was the British Airways
information desk and the American Airlines
information desk, okay?
And as I sat there and watched what
was going on cuz I ended up sitting on
the floor a few meters away, and I was
like watching these two information desks.
It was fascinating to know
the difference that occurred, okay?
Outside the British Airways
information desk with just one or
two people just kind of standing
around casually bored, right?
And then, everybody else was
sitting around nearby chilling
out outside the American Airlines
information desk.
There was a ruckus.
There were people frustrated,
they were getting annoyed and
they were getting angry and
it was this big thing going on.
Now my incredibly xenophobic view
of this as a British person was,
well, that's Americans for you,
they like to make a fuss about stuff.
But obviously,
that wasn't the reality of it,
because in British Airways have
Americans flying on it and
American Airlines having British people on
it so it's obviously nothing to do that.
What it was,
was how the two communicated differently,
both of them came out at the beginning and
said I'm really sorry but
the planes have been grounded but then
their response was slightly different.
The British Airways person said,
we'll come back to you in 10 minutes and
give you an update, and the American
Airlines said, we'll come back to you
when anything changes and nothing changed
for a long length of time, right?
So there was this long period of
time where nothing was going on.
But every 10 minutes
the British Airways woman came out and
said sorry we've got no more
information nothing's changed but
we'll be back out in 10 minutes
to give you another update.
So even though they weren't
providing any value,
it still made everybody karma, and
the same is true on your website.
So think about when you place an order on
a website or whether you fill in a contact
us form and then the email or the
transaction disappears into the ether and
you don't know what's happening,
as my order been dispatched?
Is someone gonna get in contact with me?
What's going on there?
And so giving people a sense of control
and answering their concerns and
objections reassures them and I'm gonna
give you an example of that later.
But the other way you can
give people control is allow
people to undo their mistakes, right?
For example, can I return an item easily
or can I easily cancel my subscription?
These are all fundamental
things to help people,
have the bravery to take
the step to overcome the risk.
So that's a little bit about
objection handling and taking risks.